Search
    Search 11,600+ tutorials
freeCodeCamp.org
Forum Donate
Learn to code — free 3,000-hour curriculum

September 13, 2021
/
#beginners guide
25 Python Projects for Beginners – Easy Ideas to Get Started Coding Python
Jessica Wilkins
Jessica Wilkins
25 Python Projects for Beginners – Easy Ideas to Get Started Coding Python
The best way to learn a new programming language is to build projects with it.

I have created a list of 25 beginner friendly project tutorials in Python.

My advice for tutorials would be to watch the video, build the project, break it apart and rebuild it your own way. Experiment with adding new features or using different methods.

That will test if you have really learned the concepts or not.

You can click on any of the projects listed below to jump to that section of the article.

If you are not familiar with the basics of Python, then I would suggest watching this beginner freeCodeCamp Python tutorial.

Python Projects You Can Build
Mad Libs
Guess the Number Game (computer)
Guess the Number Game (user)
Rock, paper, scissors
Hangman
Countdown Timer
Password Generator
QR code encoder / decoder
Tic-Tac-Toe
Tic-Tac-Toe AI
Binary Search
Minesweeper
Sudoku Solver
Photo manipulation in Python
Markov Chain Text Composer
Pong
Snake
Connect Four
Tetris
Online Multiplayer Game
Web Scraping Program
Bulk file renamer
Weather Program
Code a Discord Bot with Python - Host for Free in the Cloud
Space invaders game
Mad libs Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to get input from the user, work with f-strings, and see your results printed to the console.

This is a great starter project to get comfortable doing string concatenation in Python.

Guess the Number Game Python Project (computer)
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to work with Python's random module, build functions, work with while loops and conditionals, and get user input.

Guess the Number Game Python Project (user)
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will build a guessing game where the computer has to guess the correct number. You will work with Python's random module, build functions, work with while loops and conditionals, and get user input.

Rock, paper, scissors Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will work with random.choice(), if statements, and getting user input. This is a great project to help you build on the fundamentals like conditionals and functions.

Hangman Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to work with dictionaries, lists, and nested if statements. You will also learn how to work with the string and random Python modules.

Countdown Timer Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to build a countdown timer using the time Python module. This is a great beginner project to get you used to working with while loops in Python.

Password Generator Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to build a random password generator. You will collect data from the user on the number of passwords and their lengths and output a collection of passwords with random characters.

This project will give you more practice working with for loops and the random Python module.

QR code encoder / decoder Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to create your own QR codes and encode/decode information from them. This project uses the qrcode library.

This is a great project for beginners to get comfortable working with and installing different Python modules.

Tic-Tac-Toe Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to build a tic-tac-toe game with various players in the command line. You will learn how to work with Python's time and math modules as well as get continual practice with nested if statements.

Tic-Tac-Toe AI Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to build a tic-tac-toe game where the computer never loses. This project utilizes the minimax algorithm which is a recursive algorithm used for decision making.

Binary Search Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to implement the divide and conquer algorithm called binary search. This is a common searching algorithm which comes up in job interviews, which is why it is important to know how to implement it in code.

Minesweeper Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will build the classic minesweeper game in the command line. This project focuses on recursion and classes.

Sudoku Solver Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to build a sudoku solver which utilizes the backtracking technique. Backtracking is a recursive technique that searches for every possible combination to help solve the problem.

Photo Manipulation in Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn how to create an image filter and change the contrast, brightness, and blur of images. Before starting the project, you will need to download the starter files.

Markov Chain Text Composer Python Project
In this Kylie Ying tutorial, you will learn about the Markov chain graph model and how it can be applied the relationship of song lyrics. This project is a great introduction into artificial intelligence in Python.

Pong Python Project
In this Christian Thompson tutorial, you will learn how to recreate the classic pong game in Python. You will be working with the os and turtle Python modules which are great for creating graphics for games.

Snake Python Project
In this Tech with Tim tutorial, you will learn how to recreate the classic snake game in Python. This project uses Object-oriented programming and Pygame which is a popular Python module for creating games.

Connect Four Python Project
In this Keith Galli tutorial, you will learn how to build the classic connect four game. This project utilizes the numpy, math, pygame and sys Python modules.

This project is great if you have already built some smaller beginner Python projects. But if you haven't built any Python projects, then I would highly suggest starting with one of the earlier projects on the list and working your way up to this one.

Tetris Python Project
In this Tech with Tim tutorial, you will learn how to recreate the classic Tetris game. This project utilizes Pygame and is great for beginner developers to take their skills to the next level.

Online Multiplayer Game Python Project
In this Tech with Tim tutorial, you will learn how to build an online multiplayer game where you can play with anyone around the world. This project is a great introduction to working with sockets, networking, and Pygame.

Web Scraping Program Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to ask for user input for a GitHub user link and output the profile image link through web scraping. Web scraping is a technique that collects data from a web page.

Bulk File Re-namer Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to build a program that can go into any folder on your computer and rename all of the files based on the conditions set in your Python code.

Weather Program Python Project
In this Code With Tomi tutorial, you will learn how to build a program that collects user data on a specific location and outputs the weather details of that provided location. This is a great project to start learning how to get data from API's.

Code a Discord Bot with Python - Host for Free in the Cloud
In this Beau Carnes tutorial, you will learn how to build your own bot that works in Discord which is a platform where people can come together and chat online. This project will teach you how to work with the Discord API and Replit IDE.

After this video was released, Replit changed how you can store your environments variables in your program. Please read through this tutorial on how to properly store environment variables in Replit.

Space Invaders Game Python Project
In this buildwithpython tutorial, you will learn how to build a space invaders game using Pygame. You will learn a lot of basics in game development like game loops, collision detection, key press events, and more.

ADVERTISEMENT

Jessica Wilkins
Jessica Wilkins
Read more posts.

If this article was helpful, share it.

Learn to code for free. freeCodeCamp's open source curriculum has helped more than 40,000 people get jobs as developers. Get started

freeCodeCamp is a donor-supported tax-exempt 501(c)(3) charity organization (United States Federal Tax Identification Number: 82-0779546)

Our mission: to help people learn to code for free. We accomplish this by creating thousands of videos, articles, and interactive coding lessons - all freely available to the public.

Donations to freeCodeCamp go toward our education initiatives, and help pay for servers, services, and staff.

You can make a tax-deductible donation here.

Trending Books and Handbooks
Learn CSS Transform
Build a Static Blog
Build an AI Chatbot
What is Programming?
Python Code Examples
Open Source for Devs
HTTP Networking in JS
Write React Unit Tests
Learn Algorithms in JS
How to Write Clean Code
Learn PHP
Learn Java
Learn Swift
Learn Golang
Learn Node.js
Learn CSS Grid
Learn Solidity
Learn Express.js
Learn JS Modules
Learn Apache Kafka
REST API Best Practices
Front-End JS Development
Learn to Build REST APIs
Intermediate TS and React
Command Line for Beginners
Intro to Operating Systems
Learn to Build GraphQL APIs
OSS Security Best Practices
Distributed Systems Patterns
Software Architecture Patterns
Mobile App
Download on the App Store
Get it on Google Play
Publication powered by Hashnode
About
Alumni Network
Open Source
Shop
Support
Sponsors
Academic Honesty
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright Policy